GraphQL: Add layered navigation documentation (#5222)
magento/devdocs: guides/v2.3/graphql/queries/products-234.md

---
group: graphql
title: products query (Magento 2.3.4 and later)
---

The `products` query allows you to search for catalog items.

## Syntax

```graphql
products(
  search: String
  filter: ProductAttributeFilterInput
  pageSize: Int
  currentPage: Int
  sort: ProductSortFilterInput
): Products
```

## Input attributes

Each query attribute is defined below:

Attribute |  Data type | Description
--- | --- | ---

> `search` | String | Performs a full-text search using the specified key words. This attribute is optional. S

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`search` | String | Performs a full-text search using the specified key words. This attribute is optional
```

Reviewer: Also, what if we start the description with '(Optional)'?

> `filter` | ProductAttributeFilterInput | Identifies which attributes to search for and return. This attribute is required. See [filter attribute](#filter) object for more information.

Reviewer: If this attribute is required why isn't it denoted with `ProductAttributeFilterInput!` in the datatype column?

`pageSize` | Int | Specifies the maximum number of results to return at once. The default value is 20.
`currentPage` | Int | Specifies which page of results to return. The default value is 1.
`sort` | ProductAttributeSortInput | Specifies which attribute to sort on, and whether to return the results in ascending or descending order.

### search attribute

> The `search` element causes Magento to perform a full text search on the specified keywords. (This is the same type of search that is performed from the storefront. If multiple keywords are specified, each keyword is evaluated separately.)

Reviewer: I don't think the parenthetical phrase needs to be in parentheses. It's either a full sentence as is or a note.

> The `search` element causes Magento to perform a full text search on the specified keywords. (This is the same type of search that is performed from the storefront. If multiple keywords are specified, each keyword is evaluated separately.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `search` attribute triggers Magento to perform a full text search on the specified keywords. (This is the same type of search that is performed from the storefront. If multiple keywords are specified, each keyword is evaluated separately.)
```

> The `search` element is optional, but it can be used with or without filters. Each query must contain a `search` or `filter` element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While optional, you can use the `search` attribute with or without filters. Each query must contain a `search` or `filter` attribute.
```

### filter attribute {#filter}

> The `ProductAttributeFilterInput` object defines the filters to be used in the search. A filter contains at least one attribute, a comparison operator, and the value that is being searched for. The following example filter searches for products that have a `name` that contains the string `Bag` with a `price` that's less than or equal to `40`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ProductAttributeFilterInput` object defines the search filters. A filter contains at least one attribute, a comparison operator, and the value to search. The following example filter searches for products that have a `name` that contains the string `Bag` with a `price` that's less than or equal to `40`.
```

```graphql
filter: {
  name: {
    match: "Bag"
  }
  price: {
    to: "40"
  }
}
```

> Magento processes the attribute values specified in  a `ProductAttributeFilterInput` as simple data types (strings, integers, booleans). However, returned attributes can be a different, complex, data type. For example, in a response, `price` is an object that contains a monetary value and a currency code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Magento processes the attribute values specified in a `ProductAttributeFilterInput` as simple data types (strings, integers, Booleans). However, returned attributes can be a different, complex, data type. For example, in a response, `price` is an object that contains a monetary value and a currency code.
```

> By default, you can use the following attributes as filters. To define a custom filter, see [Filtering with custom attributes]({{page.baseurl}}/graphql/custom-filters.html). Use the `input_type` output attribute of the [`customAttributeMetadata` query]({{page.baseurl}}/graphql/queries/custom-attribute-metadata.html) to determine whether your custom filter should include the FilterEqualTypeInput, FilterMatchTypeInput, or FilterRangeTypeInput data type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, you can use the following attributes as filters. To define a custom filter, see [Filtering with custom attributes]({{page.baseurl}}/graphql/custom-filters.html). Use the `input_type` output attribute of the [`customAttributeMetadata` query]({{page.baseurl}}/graphql/queries/custom-attribute-metadata.html) to determine whether your custom filter should include the `FilterEqualTypeInput`, `FilterMatchTypeInput`, or `FilterRangeTypeInput` data type.
```

Attribute | Data type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`category_id` | FilterEqualTypeInput | Filters by category ID
`description` | FilterMatchTypeInput | Filters on the Description attribute
`name` | FilterMatchTypeInput | Filters on the Product Name attribute
`price` | FilterRangeTypeInput | Filters on the Price attribute
`short_description` | FilterMatchTypeInput | Filters on the Short Description attribute
`sku` | FilterEqualTypeInput | Filters on the SKU attribute
`url_key` | FilterEqualTypeInput | The part of the URL that identifies the product

#### FilterEqualTypeInput attributes

The `category_id`, `sku`, and `url_key` filters require a `FilterEqualTypeInput` object as input. You must specify a `FilterEqualTypeInput` object to filter on a custom product attribute of the following types:

-  Boolean
-  Select
-  Multiple select

Attribute | Data type | Description
--- | --- | ---

> `eq` | String | Use this attribute to exactly match the specified string. For example, to filter on a specific category ID, specify a value like "5"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`eq` | String | Use this attribute to exactly match the specified string. For example, to filter on a specific category ID, specify a value like `5`
```

> `in` | [String] | Use this attribute to filter on an array of values. For example, to filter on category IDs 4, 5, and 6, specify a value of `["4", "5", "6"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`in` | [String] | Use this attribute to filter on an array of values. For example, to filter on category IDs 4, 5, and 6, specify a value of `["4", "5", "6"]`
```

#### FilterMatchTypeInput attributes

Use the `FilterMTypeInput` object to construct a filter that returns products that exactly match a string or contain the specified pattern.

Attribute | Data type | Description
--- | --- | ---

> `match` | String | Use this attribute to exactly match the specified string. For example, to filter on a specific SKU, specify a value such as "24-MB01".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`match` | String | Use this attribute to exactly match the specified string. For example, to filter on a specific SKU, specify a value such as `24-MB01`.
```

You must specify a `FilterLikeTypeInput` object to filter on a custom product attribute of the following types:

-  Text field
-  Text area
-  Any other type not explicitly listed in `FilterEqualTypeInput`, `FilterMatchTypeInput`, or `FilterRangeTypeInput`

#### FilterRangeTypeInput attributes

Use the `FilterRangeTypeInput` object to construct a filter that returns products that fall within a range of prices or dates.

Attribute | Data type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`from` | String | Use this attribute to specify the lowest possible value in the range.
`to` | String | Use this attribute to specify the highest possible value in the range.

### pageSize attribute {#pageSize}

Magento's GraphQL implementation of pagination uses offsets so that it operates in the same manner as REST and SOAP API requests.

The `pageSize` attribute specifies the maximum number of items to return. If no value is specified, 20 items are returned.

### currentPage attribute

> The `currentPage` attribute specifies which page of results to return. If no value is specified, the first page is returned. If you specify a value that is greater than the number of available pages, an error is returned.

Reviewer: Need to specify which error?

### sort attribute

> The `sort` attribute allows you to specify which field or fields to use for sorting the results. If you specify more than one field, Magento sorts by the first field listed. Then, if any items have the same value, those items will be sorted by the secondary field.  The value for each field can be set to either `ASC` or `DESC`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `sort` attribute allows you to specify which field or fields to use for sorting the results. If you specify more than one field, Magento sorts by the first field listed. Then, if any items have the same value, those items will be sorted by the secondary field. The value for each field can be set to either `ASC` or `DESC`.
```

If you do not specify a `sort` object, Magento sorts as follows:

-  If the `search` attribute is specified, the query sorts by relevance, in descending order.

> -  If the `filter` attribute is specified but not `search`, the query sorts by position, in ascending order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  If the `filter` attribute is specified but not the `search` attribute, the query sorts by position, in ascending order.
```

> In previous releases, the `sort` attribute required a `ProductSortInput` object as input. The `sort` attribute now requires a `ProductSortFilterInput` object, which can contain the following attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous versions, the `sort` attribute required a `ProductSortInput` object as input. The `sort` attribute now requires a `ProductSortFilterInput` object, which can contain the following attributes:
```

Attribute | Data type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`name` | SortEnum | Sorts by Product Name
`position` | SortEnum | Sorts by the position of products
`price` | SortEnum | Sorts by Price

> `relevance` | SortEnum | Sorts by the search relevance score. This is the default value

Reviewer: can we just say:
```suggestion
`relevance` | SortEnum | (Default) Sorts by the search relevance score
```

### LayerFilter object

The `LayerFilter` object can be returned in a response to help create layered navigation on your app.

Attribute | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`filter_items` |  [LayerFilterItemInterface] | An array of filter items
`filter_items_count` | Int | The number of filter items in filter group
`name` | String | The layered navigation filter name
`request_var` | String | The request variable name for the filter query

### LayerFilterItemInterface

`LayerFilterItemInterface` contains an array of items that match the terms defined in the filter.

Attribute | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`items_count` | Int | The number of items the filter returned
`label` | String | The label applied to a filter
`value_string` | String | The value for filter request variable to be used in a query

## Sample queries

The following sections provide examples of `products` queries. These examples use the Magento Open Source sample data.

### Full text search

The following search returns items that contain the word `yoga` or `pants`. The Catalog Search index contains search terms taken from the product `name`, `description`, `short_description` and related attributes.

> ``` text

Reviewer: graphql instead of text?

{
  products(
    search: "Yoga pants"
    pageSize: 10
  )
  {
    total_count
    items {
      name
      sku
      price {
        regularPrice {
          amount {
            value
            currency
          }
        }
      }
    }
    page_info {
      page_size
      current_page
    }
  }
}
```

> The search returns 45 items.

Reviewer 2: We should also be consistent in using "Request" and "Response" for each of these examples. I would also recommend using those collapsable thingies for each of "Response".

                  video_description
                  video_metadata
              }
          }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Response**

```json
{
  "data": {
    "productDetail": {
      "total_count": 1,
      "items": [
        {
          "sku": "24-MB01",
          "id": 1,
          "name": "Joust Duffle Bag",
          "image": {
            "url": "http://magento2.vagrant130/pub/media/catalog/product/cache/fd3509f20f1e8c87464fb5042a4927e6/m/b/mb01-blue-0.jpg",
            "label": "Joust Duffle Bag"
          },
          "small_image": {
            "url": "http://magento2.vagrant130/pub/media/catalog/product/cache/fd3509f20f1e8c87464fb5042a4927e6/m/b/mb01-blue-0.jpg",
            "label": "Joust Duffle Bag"
          },
          "media_gallery": [
            {
              "url": "http://magento2.vagrant130/pub/media/catalog/product/cache/07660f0f9920886e0f9d3257a9c68f26/m/b/mb01-blue-0.jpg",
              "label": "Image"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Retrieve related products, Up-sells and Cross-sells

The following query shows how to get related products, Up-sells and Cross-sells for the particular product:

> ```text

Reviewer: graphql instead of text?
